Selenium interview questions

Element click intercepted exception?
will encounter this exception when we are trying to click an element but we are unable to do it because some overlay or popup is obstructing the element we wanna click
How do we resolve this? using javascript executor and webdriver waits

100 testcases created by manual team. Whats ur approach to automate them?
Do a feasibility study on the testcases first
prioritise the testcases and chose them as per the priority
Develop the feature files, write stepdefinitions and the process goes on.

Trying to perform a click on an element and its not happening, what could be the reason and a way to resolve?
javascript executor, we can click that element

A data is entered into a form and an success message will display with a delay. The delay is not consistent. How would u wait for the message to appear?
Use the webdriver wait, explicit wait waits for the condition until it appears. what if it doesn't work?

How would you estimate the ETA to automate this above testcase now that it has this inconsistent delay?
Estimation includes
How many fields are there to take input? Is pagination involved?
having keywords ready
have locators ready
Is the POM design pattern ready getters setters ready
Can we reuse those methods? if not i have to write my own.
time to understand the feature
write the code, perform unit test, get approvals, get feedback and then only my output will be merged into main branch

What is Jenkins?

There is dedicated devops team to write the code in jenkins. we just execute scripts.

How often do you trigger smoke or regression testing pipeline?
Trigger the smoke when we get the build
Trigger the regression when we get the release

What are the diff locators you use in your framework?

Faster locators?
ID is faster it can identify any unique element


Use of mvn clean command?
clean the older artifacts, logs and run a clean execution

whats is pom.xml
manage dependecies and plugins required for the framework

How will you find the broken links in the webpage
Get all <a> tags
Extract the href attribute
Send an http request to verify link status.
If the responsecode >=400, the link is broken

Usage of inheritance in your framework
Base class has this webdriver declared
extend the base class and use the webdriver object in the child classes.

What is testng?
Helps us to run the tests
prioritise the tests

YOu were running the tests in staging env URL and asked to run in the testing env URL. How would u do it?
Change the url to testing env URL in the config.properties file
declaring this property in config.properties file allows us to run the tests in said env, instead of changing the URL in multiple files.
common code.






